
# Test Plan

A short test plan for DevExperts assessment

## Objectives 🎯

The following items are going to be tested.-

* **Functional testing**
    * *API*
        * Automation testing of the following endpoints.-
            * https://api.demoblaze.com/addtocart
            * https://api.demoblaze.com/deleteitem
    * *UI*
        * Automation testing, in Firefox browser, for [DemoBlaze Product Store](https://www.demoblaze.com/index.html).-
            * Add an item to shopping cart.
            * Delete an item in shopping cart.

## Deliverables 💼

Automation framework, made in Java, with tests and test plan.

## Assumptions 🤔

* Since I am going to test a demo site that does not belong to **DevExperts**, I am assuming that the portal is working properly. If there are errors in the site, I will try to figure out how to contact the DemoBlaze team.

## Test Scenarios 💻

The task mentioned the use of BDD. Instead of adding a library of BDD to the project, which adds an extra layer of complexity to the project, making, in most of the cases, more difficult to maintain the project, I preferred to use meaningful names for the methods that demonstrate the user's actions when interacting with the application.

In the code for the UI tests, you may notice that I encapsulate the common tasks for both tests into a single method, that is called by the tests, and then I perform some assertions or I continue performing other tasks related to the shopping cart.

Due to the deadline, I am not performing tasks like to log in into the application and then do a purchase, or finishing a purchase.

The following scenarios were made from a user perspective. As you may notice, I used the **gherkin** language to write my tests.

```gherkin
Feature: BlazeDemo Product Store demo flow

# As a user, I should be able to add a product to the shopping cart without authentication.
Scenario: Add a product to the shopping cart
    Given I am on the Home page
    When I click on Samsung Galaxy S6
    And I click on Add to cart button
    Then the product is added to my cart
    And I am able to see it in the Cart page 

# As a user, I should be able to remove a product in the shopping cart without authentication.
Scenario: Remove a product in the shopping cart
    Given I am on the Home page
    When I click on Samsung Galaxy S6
    And I click on Add to cart button
    Then the product is added to my cart
    And I am able to see it in the Cart page
    Then I can delete it in my cart
```
## Risks ☠️

### Technical discoveries (bugs 🕵️ 🔎 🐞)

During the exploratory testing of the UI and API, I found these interesting things

* Most of the Web elements does not have a proper ID or class, or does not have these attributes. Their values are auto generated by the transpiler.
* It seems that the cookie does not expire.
* Post and Delete endpoints just only throws a 200 status.

### Others 📄 💉 ⚠️

* Site may not available during testing.
* Deadline.

## Staff 🧍

- **Armando Cifuentes González** ([@ArCiGo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/arcigo/))
    * _Software Engineer in Test_.
        * Experience with:
            * **Manual testing process**: _API/UI/UX testing for Web and Mobile (Android & iOS). A little bit of UX testing_.
            * **Automation testing process**: _API/UI testing for Web. A little bit of Unit testing_.
            * **Testing practice**: _Exploratory, Smoke, e2e, Retesting and Regression testing. Software analysis_.
            * **Tools**: _Postman, C#, Java, git, Selenium, Restsharp, SQL, JS, TS and Cypress_.

## Tools 🔨

The following tools are going to be used to develop the automation framework.

* **Products**
    * _Postman_.
    * _Mozilla Firefox_.
    * _IntelliJ IDEA_.
    * _RestAssured_.
    * _Extent Reports_.
    * _log4j2_.
* **Languages**
    * _Java._
    * _Markdown_.

## About Veriff 💻

Devexperts has been working for nearly two decades consulting and developing for the financial industry. We are responsible for some of the global financial industry’s most recognized and reliable technology applications.

For clients, our most important quality is our in-depth knowledge of the trading industry.

We specialize in the development of financial software and help financial industry firms grow, adapt and gain a technological advantage by providing custom software solutions and sharing our FinTech expertise. We are committed to providing an individual approach to each customer, focusing on technical excellence and on delivering the best-in-class software products.

## Agreement signatures ✍️

* **Armando Cifuentes González**. *Software Engineer in Test*. Team DemoBlaze Product Store Demo.
